Typhoid fever has virtually disappeared in the developed world, but is still endemic in many developing countries. Most cases now occur in Africa and Asia. In Latin America, incidence has decreased with water and sanitation measures, but it remains a public health concern.[4][5][6] Precise incidences are difficult to obtain due to the lack of accurate diagnostic and epidemiological data in endemic countries. In 2004 it was estimated that there were 21.6 million cases, and 200,000 deaths per year worldwide due to enteric fever. Previous estimates had been much higher.[4][5][7] In the tropics, enteric fever tends to be more common during the hot dry seasons when the concentration of bacteria in rivers and streams increases, or in the rainy season if flooding distributes sewage to drinking water sources.[8] In some areas the incidence of typhoid may be as high as 1,000 cases per 100,000 population per year. In such areas typhoid is predominantly a disease of children, and stool excretion of S. typhi during and after infection is the main source of the infection. In such areas infections are commonly mild and self-limiting. Severe disease represents the 'tip of the iceberg'.[8] In temperate countries, persistent carriers are a more important reservoir of infection.For travellers the highest attack rates are associated with visits to South Asia. Although Indonesia has a reported annual incidence up to 1%, the attack rate for travellers is low.In general, the mortality is low (<1%) where antibiotics are available, but in poorer areas, or in the context of natural disasters, war, migrations, large concentrated refugee populations, and other privations, the mortality may rise to 10-30%, despite antibiotic therapy.Typhoid tends to cluster in families, presumably reflecting a common source of the infection and is associated with poverty and poor housing.A complicating factor in assessing incidence is that the HIV and AIDS epidemic in Africa has been associated with a concomitant increase in community-acquired bacteraemia due to non-typhoidal Salmonella spp. such as S. typhimurium - an illness that may be clinically indistinguishable from typhoid.[4] Typhoid and paratyphoid fever in the UK