There are many outbreaks going in the world like MERS in middle east: UAE. Qatar, Saudia Arabia and Ebola viruses in Africa. How poorly many countries are trying to contain these viruses indicates poor management of outbreaks of these viruses It seems that many countries are hoping a miracle and they think that they have to do nothing to prevent these viruses. Once these virus outbreaks go out of control, then they start calling help from world community particularly WHO and UNO. They think that it is their duty to give the all knowhow to control these infectious agents once there are out of control rather taking steps to control such diseases at initial stages. At present, it is possible for all countries of the world to establish some small molecular laboratory to detect such viruses at very beginning stage of outbreak or before the beginning of outbreak through regular testing of these viruses. The detection is the first step to control a disease. Once you detect the pathogen correctly through right method. After that one knows what possibilities are to combat this pathogen. Many times, one needs to teach the people to take preventive measurements e.g. hygienic (clearing the hands, keeping away from the infectious source and avoid eating the diseased animals). These preventive measurements can be communicated through media like newspaper, internet, TV and radios. Some measurements can be complex and difficult to be achieved as they touch many aspects of public life. Moreover press starts making headlines to create panic in public. These can be avoided, if many countries are running regular monitoring of such viruses. Genekam Biotechnology AG is offering such tests, which can help to contain the outbreaks or even help to prevent the outbreaks before they appear. Detection of such viruses is also the basis of development of new therapies and vaccines. Many of our tests needs one drop of blood and nasal swabs e.g. MERS / Ebola to give most accurate results. There is an urgent need of establishment of laboratories around the world to monitor these viruses regularly. MERS has human to human transmission, hence one need much stronger measurements before it is late for the world. It is not the duty of a few institutes like WHO and UNO, it is duty of the countries, where these outbreaks are occuring to make arrangements to stop these viruses at the earlierst stage because many solutions are available on the markt.